title: My future plans
buffertext: Where is the future headed?
image: /images/claudedry.jpg
caption: My homeserver was water damaged during a project about hosting at home

For the future there are still lots of choices to be made, as I have no clear path laid out. First of all I hope to present my project Claude to a wider audience, Nextcloud, a company that collaborated with me during the Claude project has already invited me to speak at their community event this september. Additionally I hope to find myself a spot on the Dutch Design Week, to propagate my message of decentralising the internet and rethinking our digital architecture. When it comes to future work, I am unsure whether staying in academics would fit me, as even though my writing gotten better, I still do not feel comfortable writing papers. So for now academics seems out of the question. Perhaps if I can find a spot within academia in which I can be more explorative, I might re-evaluate this decision. I do not feel ready to start working for a company either, but the job searching will start. At the end of my bachelors, I set a goal to work at a big tech company such as Google or Apple, as these companies would always be on the forefront of innovation. However my perception on these companies has changed a lot, not only do I disagree with their perception on privacy, but these companies regularly have mass lay-offs and are not reliable employers.

When it comes to searching for a job, I would love to look for a position such as product owner or creative technology at a company with additional public interest. Combining both the conceptual and the realization aspects of design. Examples of which could be companies like Framework, Fairphone, Nextcloud or Nabu Casa. These companies could offer me additional perspectives on designing with social values in mind, all within the context of communities I already partake in. Another option would be getting a position at a small digital service design studio like Bureau Moeilijke Dingen, where I might be able to work on a variety of projects. By exploring different kind of jobs, I might find what kind of company I truly want to work for. One thing is clear however, the diededrive wil be rebuild better than ever, this time waterproof and with a backup...