title: Creativity & Aesthetics
url: /images/claudesketch2.jpg

I feel like Creativity and Aesthetics is the expertise area in which I have developed sideways. My creative process is mainly based on intuition, and that has stayed that way throughout the master. During the bachelors I would often force myself to work through more structured methods, trying to enforce taking notes and keeping track of metrics. However I have learnt this structured approach just does not work for me, as I would often have trouble expressing myself through words and had trouble turning these acts into routines. Therefore started to embrace my chaotic approach to design, by letting this structure go and put more emphasis on expression and reflection. I have learnt to adapt my process by spending more time on communicating and explaining my intuition. Especially during my M1.1 project Polaris, I have grown a lot in communication by learning how to explain my process. Sometimes this would take shape of mood boards whereas other times it would require me to do lo-fidelity prototyping. Enabling my expression through my maker skills. By making more mood boards, such as the one used to shape Claude, and small drawings during the design process I could visualize my thoughts and express myself through my hands. Especially during the later stages of my Final Master Projects I put more emphasis on communication as I would already exercise my Demoday pitch during the expert interviews, additionally I spent much more time on creating visuals and analogies for my concept to make it easier to talk about the abstract topic of data.
