title: Technology & Realisation
url: /images/claudeframe.jpg

Technology and realisation is one of my two main expertise area's. I see technology and realisation as the expertise area that defines the skill-set of turning a design from a concept into reality including all the exploration steps in-between. As an exploration driven designer this is the skill-set I am most comfortable designing with and so I am constantly developing myself by keeping myself up-to-date with all the new trends in the maker community. But during my masters there was a noticeable shift from how I tackled the realisation process during design projects. Where before I put all my effort in this expertise area, I have learnt to apply it more effectively and involve more help. Allowing me to become a more a versatile designer.

In my bachelor I wanted my final designs to be fully functional devices, I had realised that I was spending lots of time and effort figuring out how I was going to implement the technology, All of which could have been spend on other aspects of my projects. During the master I learnt that getting the right message across is more important than whether the design actually works or not. communicating the design properly allows me to validate and get valuable input on my designs instead. This input can then be used to refine the concept, allowing me to iterate on the concept more rather than just the final design. Hence I started to pivot my realisation skills towards creating immersive mock-ups that simulated the experience of using the product. Claude is a prime example of this as it would showcase the entire self-hosting experience, without the need of complex coding. This was possible because during the course 'Designing User Interfaces using Emerging Technologies' I figured out how emulate a Bluetooth keyboard with a microcontroller, which made making connected prototypes easier and more reliable. Allowing me to spend more time on the UI and other expertise area's.

Additionally I have been taking more advantage of my network. Instead of doing everything myself and limiting my design by my existing skill-sets, by finding the right people to help with complex projects. An example of which is Claude's sheet steel casing. I was not comfortable and familiar with the sheet steel bending process. By reaching out to experts, I was given the idea to laser a flat piece of steel and then bend the steel through a mould. These experts gave me advice on how to create this mould, and with a little courage, I was able to create a steel prototype within 2 weeks without any prior experience. The mould was made by stacking various layers of laser cut MDF on top of each other. The mould would consist of two negative and one positive mould, between which the steel sheet would be pressed.
